---
description: Meeting 2 - Fund 8 - dRep White Paper Working Group Meeting
---

# Meeting - 5th July 2022

## Attendees

|                     |                                                                   |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Aharon Porath       | Consenz                                                           |
| Kenric Nelson       | [Photrek](https://photrek.world/)                                 |
| Steph Macurdy       | [Wolfram Blockchain Labs](https://www.wolframblockchainlabs.com/) |
| Stephen Whitenstall | [QADAO](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io/)                 |
| Thorsten Pottebaum  | adanamics ([linktree](https://linktr.ee/adanamics))               |

### Apologies

|                |                                             |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| George Ramayya |                                             |
| Frank Albanese | [Snapbrilla](https://www.snapbrillia.com/)  |
| Philip Lazos   | [IOG](https://iohk.io/jp/team/philip-lazos) |

## Information

#### Community Governance Group

[https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/](https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/)

Documentation funded by [Fund 7 - QA-DAO Transcription Service](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383492)

#### Meeting GitHub Task

https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/71

## Agenda



## Brief Updates

[00:25](https://youtu.be/WRC1n05tIr4?t=25)

{% hint style="info" %}
Brief Updates/Notices from each participant - All
{% endhint %}

Kenric Nelson - [00:37](https://youtu.be/WRC1n05tIr4?t=37)

Steph Macurdy- [01:14](https://youtu.be/WRC1n05tIr4?t=74)

Aharon Porath - [01:35](https://youtu.be/WRC1n05tIr4?t=95)

Thorsten Pottebaum - [02:10](https://youtu.be/WRC1n05tIr4?t=130)

Stephen Whitenstall - [02:37](https://youtu.be/WRC1n05tIr4?t=157)

## Research Budget  <a href="#docs-internal-guid-46e3b976-7fff-5747-352b-2a19fb0d689f" id="docs-internal-guid-46e3b976-7fff-5747-352b-2a19fb0d689f"></a>

[03:02](https://youtu.be/WRC1n05tIr4?t=182)

{% hint style="info" %}
Any Budget updates or issues ? - Kenric Nelson
{% endhint %}

Project Start - 1st June 2022. End - 30th September 2022

Small amount reserved for community members&#x20;

Thorsten to recruit reviewers - August 2022

## Research Project Planning <a href="#docs-internal-guid-4f8b919c-7fff-cd39-7ed8-6153f4c1e729" id="docs-internal-guid-4f8b919c-7fff-cd39-7ed8-6153f4c1e729"></a>

[03:58](https://youtu.be/WRC1n05tIr4?t=238)

{% hint style="info" %}
Any updates on Project Plan timetable and deliverables - Stephen Whitenstall
{% endhint %}

No updates

## Whitepaper <a href="#docs-internal-guid-c31ad56f-7fff-35c4-1333-f53118198988" id="docs-internal-guid-c31ad56f-7fff-35c4-1333-f53118198988"></a>

{% hint style="info" %}
Please prepare Detailed Outline of your section for next meeting - All
{% endhint %}

### The role of Delegated Representation in Blockchain Governance

#### Philip Lazos

{% hint style="info" %}
Email follow-up - apologies sent
{% endhint %}
