---
description: Meeting 3 - Fund 8 - dRep White Paper Working Group Meeting
---

# Meeting - 19th July 2022

Video

## Attendees

|                     |                                                                   |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Aharon Porath       | Consenz                                                           |
| Kenric Nelson       | [Photrek](https://photrek.world/)                                 |
| Philip Lazos        | [IOG](https://iohk.io/jp/team/philip-lazos)                       |
| Steph Macurdy       | [Wolfram Blockchain Labs](https://www.wolframblockchainlabs.com/) |
| Stephen Whitenstall | [QADAO](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io/)                 |
| Thorsten Pottebaum  | adanamics ([linktree](https://linktr.ee/adanamics))               |

### Apologies

|                |                                            |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| George Ramayya |                                            |
| Frank Albanese | [Snapbrilla](https://www.snapbrillia.com/) |

## Information

#### Community Governance Oversight Group

{% hint style="info" %}
[https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/](https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/)
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Documentation funded by [Fund 7 - QA-DAO Transcription Service](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383492)
{% endhint %}

#### Meeting GitHub Task

(Used for Project Management tracking and reporting)

{% hint style="info" %}
[https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/96](https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/96)&#x20;
{% endhint %}

## Agenda

## Brief Updates

00:02

{% hint style="info" %}
Brief Updates/Notices from each participant - All
{% endhint %}

Stephen Whitenstall - 00:02&#x20;

Kenric Nelson - 00:41 - And Budget Update&#x20;

Thorsten Pottebaum - 01:52&#x20;

Aharon Porath - 02:37&#x20;

Steph Macurdy - 04:03&#x20;

Philip Lazos - 04:43

## Research Budget - Kenric Nelson <a href="#docs-internal-guid-1cbf57a2-7fff-27b5-ef9b-9e017b4e1302" id="docs-internal-guid-1cbf57a2-7fff-27b5-ef9b-9e017b4e1302"></a>

00:41

{% hint style="info" %}
Any Budget updates or issues ?&#x20;
{% endhint %}

Using allocation to distribute co-allocations

Money available for community reviewers

Kenric Nelson - 00:41 - And Budget Update

## Research Project Planning - Stephen Whitenstall <a href="#docs-internal-guid-097619fc-7fff-df05-dc0c-dc8e89dc646e" id="docs-internal-guid-097619fc-7fff-df05-dc0c-dc8e89dc646e"></a>

05:27

{% hint style="info" %}
Any updates on Project Plan timetable and deliverables
{% endhint %}

\


Okay, we've done research budget, Kenrick where you just mentioned allocation should count locations. money's available, as you say to 20 reviewers. There's no real project plan updates, we are continuing meetings, if there's anything that things are proceeding smoothly. So I will do monthly report and report that we're just holding these meetings regularly on the 26th As usual, and that's all going to be rotating routine. So if we go into the meat of the meeting, which is going to be the white paper, shall we proceed through the titles of each paper? kemmerich. So I think well,

