---
cover: ../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot from 2022-08-15 20-37-36 (1).png
coverY: 0
---

# Meeting - 16th August 2022

## Attendees

|                     |                                                                   |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kenric Nelson       | [Photrek](https://photrek.world/)                                 |
| Steph Macurdy       | [Wolfram Blockchain Labs](https://www.wolframblockchainlabs.com/) |
| Stephen Whitenstall | [QADAO](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io/)                 |
| Aharon Porath       | Consenz                                                           |
| Thorsten Pottebaum  | adanamics ([linktree](https://linktr.ee/adanamics))               |

### Community Reviewers

#### At meeting

|                  |                  |
| ---------------- | ---------------- |
| Chris Keller     | Community Review |
| Andrii Volostyn  | Community Review |
| Harry Hellyer    | Community Review |
| Jack Briggs      | Community Review |

#### Participating

|                 |                  |
| --------------- | ---------------- |
| Dr A. Fisher    | Community Review |
| Bruno Valverde  | Community Review |
| Cliffon         | Community Review |
| Nori            | Community Review |
| Simon Sailstrom | Community Review |
|                 |                  |

### Apologies

|              |                                             |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| Philip Lazos | [IOG](https://iohk.io/jp/team/philip-lazos) |

## Information

#### Community Governance Oversight Group

{% hint style="info" %}
[https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/](https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/)
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Documentation funded by [Fund 7 - QA-DAO Transcription Service](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383492)
{% endhint %}

#### Meeting GitHub Task

(Used for Project Management tracking and reporting)

{% hint style="info" %}
[https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/96](https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/96)
{% endhint %}

## Agenda

## Welcome

#### Stephen Whitenstall - [00:02](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zyq0BKlsD1I\&t=2s)

You can refer to this Agenda as a record of who attended and a summary of the content of our meeting.

We usually have a 45 minute recorded session and then have an informal unrecorded session afterwards. There's references here for the documentation.&#x20;

## Brief Updates

{% hint style="info" %}
Brief Updates/Notices from each participant - All
{% endhint %}

#### Stephen Whitenstall - 00:02

And we usually have a brief update from each participant. So maybe we can just as a few of us here, just a sentence or two.

I am Stephen Whitenstall of QADAO. I am part of the Community Governance Oversight proposal which includes this dRep Working Group.

#### Kenric Nelson - 02:34

I'm Kenric, I lead a company called Photrek and I am really thrilled to be working with Steve and the team as part of oversight of governance and this dRep paper. It's really coming together. Thanks everyone for joining us today.

#### Andrii Volostyn - 03:00

Hello, everyone. I'm Andre. I'm in Catalyst from Fund one.&#x20;

I have been a proposer, a CA and a vCA. I'm interested in blockchain governance, and in governance in general. So I submitted an application to be a dRep. And two weeks ago on the After Townhall there was a group on this. So I left  many comments in that white paper. Thanks for inviting me.&#x20;

#### Jack Briggs - 03:46

I'm Jack. I work for IOG and I'm part of the team that are rolling out delegation, dReps and many other things for governance.&#x20;

#### Steph Macready - 03:49

Hello, I'm Steph. I work at Wolfram Blockchain Labs, which is a subsidiary of Wolfram Research. I am part of writing this white paper focused on the measuring the influence of voter power using the Banzhaf Power Index .

#### Aharon Porath - 04:23&#x20;

I'm Aharon, the founder of Consenz,  a platform we're building for documenting decision making processes in a decentralised manner. We have been funded by the Catalyst project and we are also writing together with Kenric a chapter in the white paper for providing clear consensus and communication for governance.

#### Harry Hellyer - 05:05

My name is Harry Hillier. I run a coaching consultancy firm called edify with a set of partners. And then we run Edified co Labs.&#x20;

We work with a lot of technology firm, corporates and mid tier firms. So what's my value in this conversation? It will be to come at it more from a business point of view as opposed to a technical point of view. So rather than it being an objective perspective, it will be a business development strategy.

#### Thorsten Pottebaum - 05:52

Hello I am Thorsten. I am a Co-Editor. Some of you may have meet me already in the After Town Hall.

#### Chris Keller - 06:28

Hi, Stephen, good to see you. Again. I am here in support of QA DAO, the Challenge teams and the Circle and all pieces of Catalyst. I'm here pleasantly absorbing the dRep conversation and maybe won't be adding today I'm burdened with kids. But here for all the work you guys are doing with us.

## Research Budget

#### Kenric Nelson - updates - 06:50

We received the final payment from CGO Treasury for this project. And I've also forwarded a payment for Thorston for his work this month on being the co-editor. Later in the month we'll make final decisions with regard to rewards for the reviewers.

## Project Planning Update

#### Stephen Whitenstall - updates - 07:44

On the project planning side, I'll just refer to the previous Fund 7 CGO proposal which we have now done a closing report and we will be doing a presentation at Town Hall tomorrow.\
\
In that presentation there will be a reference to the predecessor of this working group, which was a DAO literature review. Then this project will be referred to as the successor of that. So watch out for that in the After Town Hall tomorrow.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
See [https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/proposal-reporting/proposal/f7-final-report](https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/proposal-reporting/proposal/f7-final-report)
{% endhint %}

#### Kenric Nelson - 08:30

Looking at the calendar the team had made a request to not hold as many meetings during August, but I wanted to kind of press forward. So we did have two meetings this month, but I'm going to suggest that the meeting for the 30th August 2022 be cancelled or postponed.

I'm going to make a recommendation that rather than waiting a full month that we meet on 1800 UTC, September 6th 2022 as our next meeting for this group.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Next meeting :** 1800 UTC, Tuesday, September 6th, 2022
{% endhint %}

Looking at the month of September my recommendation is the 6th September 2022 include this whole team with the reviewers again. And then the 20th September 2022 be just the author's. And that's when we're going to finalise everything.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
**Authors/Editors meeting :** 20th September 2022
{% endhint %}

If anyone wants to make input into the review of the dRep white paper they should be doing it this week. So can \[Thorsten] get on Catalyst social media, and provide a link to the white paper and let people know that. You know, they should make their input this week, if they want to contribute to the review.&#x20;

Maybe the 14th of September 2022 might be a good time to do another after town hall discussion before we release the paper ?

## Community Review of dRep White Paper

#### Kenric Nelson - 14:16

Some updates on the organisation of this.&#x20;

The title page will just have the editors now because the way we're doing this kind of more like in the structure of a book chapter or journal.&#x20;

So we have a whole group of authors but the authors are only responsible for their section. And then I also put a table of contents together.&#x20;

The editors are putting together an introduction.&#x20;

Philip Lazos is putting together a literature review on delegated representation.

Steph Macready is going into more depth on the analytical side of how you measure power in delegated systems.&#x20;

Finally, we'll conclude with Aharon Porath who's applying governance to the process of consensus in writing a document.&#x20;

### Forming consensus in governance documentation

#### Aharon Porath, Omer Tzuk, Kenric Nelson

#### Kenric Nelson - 17:32

To make sure that we're also giving time and depth to Aaron's work, I'd like to start with that today.

Andrew Fisher is not is not apparently able to join us today. But he did a really deep dive and was quite helpful. Have you had a chance to look at his comments, Aaron?

#### Aharon Porath

Yeah and I implemented some changes and edited some sections according to the comments that have been added to the document.

The conclusion you are seeing now is after considering those comments.

#### Kenric Nelson

Once you feel like you've satisfied a comment it's good to have a reply so that the commenter can can understand what you did.&#x20;

For instance, this comment \[...] "feels like you need a link between the last section in this one, it was initially unclear to me how this document creation ties back."  And then I said, "I've changed the order".

As far as linking in your section, Aaron, I would recommend an opening sentence or two describing that you're providing an application of governance \[to enable] for communities to develop documents together.&#x20;

### Summary of comments

#### Aharon Porath - 20:15

The comments that I have noticed were about structure. Very useful comment comments about some unclear parts of both the section and and good advice also how to change the structure of a paragraph or an idea.&#x20;

A content, specific content referred to [Liquid Feedback](https://liquidfeedback.com/en/) as doing something similar \[to Consenz].&#x20;

I did know in the past of this application but haven't checked it for a long time. I did watch the demo. It is very interesting, useful, but not focused enough. This is this my impression.&#x20;

Later on we'll make a comparison to other apps aiming for the same goal. I'm not sure that if if it should be in the scope of this specific paper, I doubt it actually.&#x20;

Three of us are already gathering citation sand references for previous works on consensus and voting on on creating documentation.&#x20;

So we will find the ones that are relevant for this specific section edit \[to add] to the references of the document.

To summarize, the idea is to widen the decision making processes. More than just voting. To create the guidelines and the documentation that are needed for the cooperation of the community. This is what we offer.&#x20;

In the context of liquid democracy and decentralized representation, we are offering some \[versatility in] voting processes or voting influence.

That can combine liquid democracy for one decision, direct democracy (or one person one vote) for another decision, some of combination derived from holding of specific coins and also a quadratic voting and square root voting.

On the same application we can provide a different methods of decision making, that can be a playground for us to explore and experience different decision making processes.

Consenz can provide an ongoing governance process that is between the voting periods of the catalyst funding process.

#### Stephen Whitenstall - 24:31

It's a very much a document centered approach and that's the aspect that we're covering here for the white paper.

#### Kenric Nelson - 24:46

If anyone has read Aharon's section and wants to comment on it that would be helpful right now. And the other thing is some of the reviewers may still need kind of an introduction to what's expected of them. So if you have questions about the review process, you can ask those now. Let's start with the first question.&#x20;

#### Harry Hellyer - 25:21

Yes, I read through the sections.&#x20;

And I think my comments on it are two or three different levels of contexts.&#x20;

So as I said before, it depends where you want to go with it.

I liked I liked Aharon sections \[of the white paper] and I liked Andrii's feedback on those sections.&#x20;

Because for me, the issue is, \[...] what's the purpose of the paper and what's the purpose of this way of voting ?

I liked the explanation of things throughout the paper \[...] the issue, though, is that perspective.

&#x20;So as you were saying about having a canonical description, who is the group that this is aimed at? And I can definitely see, it's aimed at people inside catalyst, who are taking an inside out view of the world. So looking for the inside to the outside, and they're thinking about being a D rep. Or they're a voter who has some power to delegate. And they're thinking about why should I engage in that system? That was all really well explained. And fantastic. The group I didn't see represented, particularly, and it may be that this is, you know, the this is the bit around. Why, why is capitalist here, I didn't see the bit that says, right, I'm a proposer, I'm going to put 50 hours worth of my team's time and effort into putting a proposal in. And I might, particularly if I'm from the outside in, so I'm not already working as a job. And this is a side hustle, I'm actually going to take my resource, try and get it into a blockchain solution, and run that through catalyst, because it's brilliant. If I'm doing that, I need to understand that the process that I'm going to put my 50 100 hours of time into, can be a trusted process that works in terms of fairness and trust, basically, and I haven't seen much of that description in this process. And it's not again, there's no judgement on it's not a failing, it just it's not covered. Now, in a funny way, that goes back to what is catalysts here for? So if catalyst is a brilliant incubation Innovation Hub, and it's aimed at entrepreneurial devs, who are in catalyst or may come in to catalyst. Fantastic. That's cool. If however, it's aimed at supporting businesses, innovation driven businesses, who are going to come into that ecosystem from the outside, then there's a different set of conversations that I don't feel a covered and as I say, Andrew, Andrew started. And then I think the second my second comment,
