# Release Meeting - 4th October 2022

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/iOQbH8mWJvE" %}

## Attendees

|                     |                                                                   |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kenric Nelson       | [Photrek](https://photrek.world/)                                 |
| Steph Macurdy       | [Wolfram Blockchain Labs](https://www.wolframblockchainlabs.com/) |
| Stephen Whitenstall | [QADAO](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io/)                 |
| Thorsten Pottebaum  | adanamics ([linktree](https://linktr.ee/adanamics))               |

### Apologies

|               |                                             |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Philip Lazos  | [IOG](https://iohk.io/jp/team/philip-lazos) |
| Aharon Porath | Consenz                                     |

## Information

#### Community Governance Oversight Group

{% hint style="info" %}
[https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/](https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/)
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Documentation funded by [Fund 7 - QA-DAO Transcription Service](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383492)
{% endhint %}

#### Meeting GitHub Task

(Used for Project Management tracking and reporting)

{% hint style="info" %}
[https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/108](https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/108)
{% endhint %}

## Agenda <a href="#docs-internal-guid-6712eba1-7fff-caa3-86cf-70c6b25b09b4" id="docs-internal-guid-6712eba1-7fff-caa3-86cf-70c6b25b09b4"></a>

### Brief Updates/Notices from each participant - All <a href="#docs-internal-guid-fe2ac060-7fff-1af0-bd95-10c20ff5f98a" id="docs-internal-guid-fe2ac060-7fff-1af0-bd95-10c20ff5f98a"></a>

Rebrand of Photrek by WADA - Kenric

Bumping around F9 onboarding - Steph

dApps Challenge team - Thorsten

## Research Budget - Kenric Nelson

No updates

### Research Project Planning - Stephen Whitenstall

{% hint style="info" %}
CGO Monthly Report due - 24th September 2022
{% endhint %}

### Whitepaper

Please prepare Detailed Outline / final drafts of your section for the next meeting - All

#### Public Release of White Paper

{% hint style="info" %}
Meeting - Tuesday, 4th October 2022 - final release meeting - All
{% endhint %}

Link to White Paper - showcase ATH

Social Media launch on the Tuesday

{% hint style="info" %}
After Town Hall - Wednesday 5th October 2022 - Thorsten to arrange
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Swarm session, Saturday, 8th October 2022 - Thorsten to arrange
{% endhint %}

#### Other Venues ?

Invitations to discuss - Twitterspaces, Lidonation, Rhys, YouTube

Observe dRep implementation and highlight White paper as a resource

### Close out of F8 meeting&#x20;

Lessons learnt - end of proposal report

CGO F8 - close out meeting - from 14th November 2022

#### F10 proposals&#x20;

Stephs section has original data that could be evolved in proposal - Kenric

Get into a scientific journal ? - Kenric

Delivering value to community - deeper results immediately - Steph

Making tools available to community - Kenric

Products & Integrations challenge ?&#x20;

Team effort - Steph

Power index - dripdropz - 1 ADA / 1 Vote - Catalyst Circle Reps - Thorsten

Be flexible in scope of F10 proposal top include non-dRep governance analysis - Stephen&#x20;

Analysis is difficult - data is important - transparency double edged - makes voting less secure - Kenric

F10 dRep Oversight proposal - low budget - Thorsten, Stephen, CGO - now more than 20k

### Tuesday 1st November 1800 UTC - F10 proposal meeting

{% hint style="info" %}
F10 proposal meeting - Schedule date and share Google doc proposal - Stephen W
{% endhint %}

\
