---
description: Oversight of Catalyst Circle problem sensing - Working group
---

# Circle / Oversight Working group

## Miro Board - ([link](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVO9jQA3w=/)) - ideation

{% embed url="https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVO9jQA3w=" %}

## Working group meeting #1&#x20;

#### Monday 11th April 2022

**Nadia Hopkins** - CCv3 Community Advisor Rep

**Tevo Saks** - CCv2 Toolmakers Rep

**Stephen Whitenstall** - CCv2 Funded Proposer Rep

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/7c_6ZTGiBpE" %}

##

## References

### Circle Problem - Review and Revise the Prioritized-Problems Workflow

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/86" %}

### Oversight of Catalyst Circle problem sensing

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Audit-and-Oversight-Coordination/issues/47" %}
