# F8 Meeting 1 -14th July 2022

F8 Meeting 1

## Agenda

[Link to Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Y9BO6Veua0FVRC\_cV9G-murzhakwuxrH1zVpz0P16HI/edit?usp=sharing)

## Attendees

| Name                | Role     |
| ------------------- | -------- |
| Allison Fromm       | Member   |
| Kenric Nelson       | Member   |
| Matthias Sieber     | Member   |
| Phil Khoo           | Member   |
| Stephen Whitenstall | Member   |
| Tevo Saks           | Member   |
| Vanessa Cardui      | Member   |
| Andre Diamond       | Treasury |
| Miroslav Rajh       | Treasury |

## Information

### Community Governance Oversight (CGO)

[F7 Ideascale Proposal](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383517)

[F8 Ideascale proposal](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398225)

{% embed url="https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/" %}

## Agenda

## 1. F8 CGO Treasury

* **00:55 - Andre** - F8 $ 6860 incoming next month. We have already paid for the F8 CGO meeting commitments and $ 4200 for Kenric's research budget.&#x20;
* **02:21 - Phil K -** The rest of the payments will be variable based on deliverables ?
* **02:27 - Stephen W** - Yes that is right.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action:** In August 2022 pay reminder of the research budget to Kenric.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action**: Pay Allison $75 for Town Hall Slides X 2 ($150) in July 2022
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action:** Pay Stephen W $500 for Project Management for July 2022
{% endhint %}

## 2. Town Hall Slides

**07:21 - Allison** - Updates on Town Hall Slides

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/87" %}

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2022-07-16 135610.png>)

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2022-07-16 135650.png>)

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2022-07-16 151840.png>)

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2022-07-16 151941.png>)

Allison went into a little more depth about CGO history and where we came from and what we're trying to do. We did ask people to comment on parameters this time around either in the chat or in discord.&#x20;

**08:01 - Thorsten** - Do we have a publicly accessible register of all the parameters which we have identified?

**Stephen -** No we do not. Do you think we should do that ?

**Thorsten -** I think it would be helpful. Yes.

**08:41 - Phil K** - IOG have forewarning now that CGO are noting parameter changes at Town Hall slides. So I think that is a good place to start.&#x20;

**Stephen -** We are doing oversight of parameters. And I suppose that's what the question is, is how we are going to approach that? Allison's obviously you're doing you're doing a kind of an overview for every town hall slide presentation.

**Allison -** That is meant to be only the most recent changes that we have informally observed. I agree that, ideally, documenting all parameters and logging when they change, how that decision is made and how it's communicated would be fantastic. But that is a lot of work.&#x20;

## 3. CGO Project Board Review

**09:59 - Stephen W**

{% embed url="https://github.com/orgs/Catalyst-Auditing/projects/3/views/1" %}

A quick view of the project board. A bit frightening because there's a lot in the backlog. But it's mostly to do with Fund 7 stuff in progress.

We have spoken about the Town Hall Slides.&#x20;

Mostly, today's meeting is going to be a scoping meeting.&#x20;

## 4 F8 CGO Scope & Deliverables <a href="#docs-internal-guid-ba4eaced-7fff-0b8f-c4bc-7cd87458c260" id="docs-internal-guid-ba4eaced-7fff-0b8f-c4bc-7cd87458c260"></a>

### 4.1 Challenge Setting

**40:56 (discussed later in meeting)**

What is the scope of Challenge Setting Oversight ?

{% hint style="info" %}
Issue : [https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/88](https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/88)
{% endhint %}

I'm presenting categories and contributor recurring model to IOG on 22nd July, will be recorded, will share into CGO Discord - George

Documented ? - Vanessa

With challenge settings I am pushing contributors as a recurring model. There's a lot of parameters in contributor model that would need thought.

(documentation) Wasn't planning to - can do, either way - George

But it feels like the whole issue of the scope of challenge settings is kind of different from catalyst contributors. And I'm not quite seeing how CGO has a take on catalyst contributors. What am I missing? - Vanessa

I'm a little lost, too. I understand the funding categories. But I'm not sure how contributors fits into that. - Allison

It's because funding categories are looking to replace challenge settings and contributors is a big part of that - George

Discussion from Nadia/Tomi work - bit confused by what they are suggesting - Kenric

Concerned that Challenge Team members not given authority to audit proposals - Kenric

Challenge Teams were never intended as auditing function. Audit is a heavy responsibility and the compensation is not enough - Vanessa

My understanding Challenge Team is not an audit function. I was hoping Ron Hill or others would submit audit proposals -  Phil

What I observe is that every challenge has at least three, maybe as many as five IOG employees who are part of the challenge team. And then maybe one or the most two that are non IOG employees. Even this is like a baby step towards some delegation to the community. But there was never a commitment of a substantial budget. So that you could recruit the right kind of people and they would have the adequate amount of time to do the functions that would truly be leadership of that challenge. - Kenric

This particular Fund 9 has been quite unusual in terms of the challenge settings, and the challenges that have been available to propose in. I would quite like to see CGO do some kind of oversight or information gathering on what effect that has had on Catalyst? I don't quite know what that would look like or what our process would be. But does anybody think that would be useful or valid? - Vanessa

That sounds amazing. But it also sounds like it would take up all our money. That's a whole other thing to understand that. - Phil&#x20;

Yeah, I was gonna say the same thing. We've got a lot of fantastic ideas and good work here. I think we're, we're not we're not lacking things we could do. It's a question of prioritizing which ones we have the resources to do. - Allison

Fund 8 feedback due from voting survey - Tevo

We could add questions to the Fund 9 IOG survey ? - Phil

Who is working on what ? - Kenric

{% hint style="info" %}
**Resources** - George, Phil
{% endhint %}

### 4.2 Catalyst Circle Oversight <a href="#docs-internal-guid-44e33ab0-7fff-8276-b868-29b983da0a04" id="docs-internal-guid-44e33ab0-7fff-8276-b868-29b983da0a04"></a>

What is the scope of F8 Catalyst Circle Oversight ?

{% hint style="info" %}
Issue : [https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/89](https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/89)
{% endhint %}

11:27 - How should we approach Circle Oversight ? - Stephen

11:35 - I can chime in because I led one of the After Town Hall discussions \[on Circle compensation]. And I think it was a very good discussion.&#x20;

I just finished detailed notes of the meeting that I've asked Stephen and Harris to review before I publish it. Joey \[Chessner - Circle v3 Representative] had input to that.

People have different thoughts but there was kind of consensus that it's important for some reasonable compensation for the circle members. There is support for the Circle, and for being sustainable through appropriate compensation. I also have done some design work on this, and outline some possibilities.

There is a student from Oxford, who's also quite interested in this problem. My concern is whether IOG will take \[the compensation issue] seriously.&#x20;

13:26 - I think there's a big disparity between how community members are being recruited to fulfill functions within catalysts. And how either proposal teams are compensating people on their proposal teams or even you know IRG in terms of how they run their business and how they recruit people to be employees of their business. And ultimately, I think that disparity has to be resolved in order for the community to be more healthy. Okay, so with the circle roll, I've proposed some ideas that would allow for a kind of negotiation, where candidates could propose the salary, but then there'd also be a process that would make that you know, be competitive and



### 4.3 d-Reps <a href="#docs-internal-guid-018d6226-7fff-ac98-706b-7cac10df2f5b" id="docs-internal-guid-018d6226-7fff-ac98-706b-7cac10df2f5b"></a>

In progress - last meeting&#x20;

F8 - dRep White Paper Working Group Meeting Tuesday, 4th July 2022 - 1700 UTC

{% hint style="info" %}
Issue : [https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/86](https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/86)
{% endhint %}

### 4.4 Governance parameters <a href="#docs-internal-guid-b3eb649b-7fff-efe2-ab50-c347d17bd855" id="docs-internal-guid-b3eb649b-7fff-efe2-ab50-c347d17bd855"></a>

What is the scope of F8 Governance parameters ?

{% hint style="info" %}
Issue : [https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/90](https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/90)
{% endhint %}

\






