---
description: 'Community Governance Oversight Meeting #5 - 15:00 UTC, Thursday, 05th May 2022'
---

# F7 Meeting 5 - 5th May 2022

[F7 Meeting 5 - Agenda - Thursday, 5th May 2022](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZCh-kV6HuDzr-Ti\_xPSUNJNxLzOS6UOqChouRLgfWkI/edit)

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=youtu.be&v=EdXDseBeGKg" %}

## Agenda

[Link to Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZCh-kV6HuDzr-Ti\_xPSUNJNxLzOS6UOqChouRLgfWkI/edit)

## Attendees

| Name                | Role     |
| ------------------- | -------- |
| Allison Fromm       | Member   |
| Kenric Nelson       | Member   |
| Jo Allum            | Member   |
| Matthias Sieber     | Member   |
| Phil Khoo           | Member   |
| Stephen Whitenstall | Member   |
| Tevo Saks           | Member   |
| Vanessa Cardui      | Member   |
| Andre Diamond       | Treasury |
| Miroslav Rajh       | Treasury |

## Minutes <a href="#minutes" id="minutes"></a>

| Name          | Role      |
| ------------- | --------- |
| Livia Corcino | Secretary |

## Information

### Community Governance Oversight (CGO)&#x20;

F7 Ideascale Proposal - https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383517&#x20;

F8 Ideascale Proposal - https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398225&#x20;

GitBook - https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/

## Agenda

## 1. CGO Treasury

Andre & Mirolav - updates on Treasury setup, member payments, costs & expenses.&#x20;

**5 minutes**&#x20;

* 0:55 Andre – We've paid everything except the surveys, retrospectives and reports. We need to do the math on that tomorrow, to be ready for when funds go in on 9th May.&#x20;
* 01:35 Stephen – We've already paid for Town Hall slides and everything else

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action -** Deliverables budgeting - Andre & Stephen
{% endhint %}

## 2. Town Hall Slides&#x20;

Allison - Updates on Town Hall Slides&#x20;

**5 minutes**&#x20;

Issue

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/72" %}

* 02:02 Allison – The slides were delivered. The proposal has not been so promoted.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action -** Ask external survey
{% endhint %}

## 3. Fund 8 - CGO Proposal&#x20;

Stephen - The Fund 8 CGO Proposal is in the voting stage&#x20;

**5 minutes**&#x20;

Issue&#x20;

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/65" %}

* 02:26 Stephen – Links to our F8 proposal have been removed from the Town Hall slides. However, not everyone presenting at Town Hall did this during the voting period.&#x20;
* 03:03 Phil – Probably because some people were showing videos that were already pre-recorded before this was mentioned.&#x20;
* 03:35 Phil – Might be interesting to know what external people are thinking about this group - perhaps a survey?
* 04:53 Matthias – Voting on our F8 proposal might tell us that.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action -**&#x20;
{% endhint %}

## 4. CGO Project Board Review

Review&#x20;

Stephen - Brief Review of the Project Board to check overall progress

**5 minutes**&#x20;

{% embed url="https://github.com/orgs/Catalyst-Auditing/projects/3/views/1" %}

* 05:36 Stephen – There is a final report to be made, related to the report in progress. What was done is a literature review. There is progress across the board.
* 6:49 Allison – There was communication with George, who would be interested in talking to the group and seeing if there is any synergy.&#x20;
* 07:20 Stephen – Need to get some context about what is happening in the challenge configuration, put that in our final report for this proposal, and leave it at that until Fund 8.&#x20;
* 7:46 Phil - And we could report on the fund 8 vote, and how George approached it; whether voters understood what he was doing and, for example, whether equal wallets voted for all his challenge settings.
* 08:08 Stephen – Best to meet with George to hear from him what information can be added to our final report.

## 5. F7 CGO Scope and Deliverables

All members - Progress under each scope area: 40 minutes

### 5.1 Challenge setting process

**10 minutes**

Scope: Including community contributed challenges and the creation and expanding role of challenge teams&#x20;

Deliverables: TBA - Need to consider approach to CT survey&#x20;

Issue

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/48" %}

#### Actions from previous meetings

Phil: 1) To feedback to Ro of Adagov. Maybe come and speak to oversight. Talk to George Lovegrove about oversight. 2)Consolidate challenges into smaller categories - Stephen/Allison.&#x20;

Any weekday after UTC 1700 Context of Challenge Setting Ask George for the extent of Oversight contribution. Understanding of voting response to George’s Challenge setting.&#x20;

Update from Ro - Phil 09:30 UTC - Allison, Stephen.

* 08:26 Phil – An analysis of the voting process would be interesting.&#x20;
* 09:16 Phil – From George's point of view, the outcome of the processes, how voters accept it, is more important than the process itself.&#x20;
* 10:03 Allison – The community needs to be informed where Catalyst Circle is now, the length of the term and that there will be no other election now.&#x20;
* 10:57 Stephen – Contact will be made with George to arrange a meeting.&#x20;
* 11:46 Phil – We can invite Ro to our last meeting.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action -**&#x20;
{% endhint %}

### 5.2 Catalyst Circle problem sensing

10 minutes

Scope: Effectiveness of prioritized problem sensing

Deliverables : How effectively is the prioritized problem board working? How can CGO survey, assist and report on this?

Issue&#x20;

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/47" %}

#### Actions from previous meetings

Joint working party meetings with Catalyst Circle V3 on the Problems process. - Allison, Stephen, Tevo Working group meeting 4 &#x20;

Tuesday 10th May 2022 No CCv3 elections taking place? When a decision is made? - Allison&#x20;

Lack of clarity on cc terms - clarified at start of CCv3 - Vanessa

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action -** Next TH refer to CCv3 term and election process. How does the 4 month cadence impact CC term.
{% endhint %}

* 12:43 Phil – Due to the time difference between Ro and the rest of the members, a separate meeting can also be held for him.&#x20;
* 13:28 Stephen – There could be about 6 meetings that would not need to be recorded.&#x20;
* 13:48 Phil – Ro is more focused on data and system structures than defining challenges.&#x20;
* 15:04 Stephen – We are having regular meetings about the circle and looking at the problem process.&#x20;
* 15:34 Allison – It's an interesting project to help circle reps be more effective.
* 16:10 Tevo – We are halfway there and the next sessions will be about the prioritised problem stage the Circle is working on.&#x20;
* 16:44 Stephen – We should look at how problems are coming up on the board, if there's community evidence behind it. In the Circle we are trying to come up with a method for measuring problems and then moving them around.&#x20;
* 18:34 Stephen – Suggest combining the report that we have to deliver as part of the proposal and the final report.&#x20;
* 19:04 Stephen – A shared document has been created that can be completed offline or at the next meeting.&#x20;
* 20:20 Allison – As this group is working to increase transparency of governance across Catalyst, maybe we should comment in our next town hall slides that there is not a Circle election happening now.&#x20;
* 20:52 Vanessa – There was some confusion; was clarified at the start of CCv3 that CCv3 would last for 6 months.
* 21:29 Allison – Useful to give a reminder to the community, especially as there was some confusion about it at the time of the last election.&#x20;
* 22:21 Stephen – I think it's valid to mention it in our next Town Hall slides, the week after next.&#x20;
* 24:08 Allison – There was indeed a lot of confusion and even some candidates didn't understand what the term was.&#x20;
* 24:42 Vanessa – Most of the community is probably aware of the 6 month term and that there will be no upcoming election, but how it got to this point is not so clear.
* 26:34 Vanessa – There is discussion in CCv3 now about the electoral process for CCv4.&#x20;
* 27:15 Phil – Cadence of the funding rounds is now effectively 4 months - should CC cadence stay in step with that?
* 27:33 Allison -  That change of fund cadence is a parameter change
* 28:39 Matthias - the change to fund 9 being in ADA is also a parameter change
* 28:56 Stephen - let's hold those 2 things for the agenda item on parameter changes

### 5.3 D-reps

**10 minutes**

Scope: Oversight of delegated voting innovations

Deliverables: The Survey deliverable will be used for a literature search contrasting “liquid democracy “ and “illiquid plutocracy “. The purpose is to provide measurable definitions for these terms. This would support the research for F8 CGO and provide some context for the interviews conducted within the community.&#x20;

Issue

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/49" %}

Updates - DAO Governance Literature Review&#x20;

Meeting 26th April 2022 Next meeting&#x20;

Meeting 10th May 2022

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action -**&#x20;
{% endhint %}

* 29:10 Stephen – Kenric is not here, so quick update: A first DAO governance literature review meeting took place with Steph from Wolfram and others, where the Zotero tool was reviewed; we're going to start holding these meetings regularly so they're likely to overlap with the fund 8 proposal.

### 5.4 **Governance parameters**

**10 minutes**&#x20;

Scope: Modifying the governance parameters in Catalyst via Catalyst Circle and a Technical Council

Deliverables: This scope area is on hold from IOG's side. CGO are focusing on defining what a parameter change is, and documenting how parameter changes occur.

Issue

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/50" %}

**Actions from previous meeting**

* Tevo and Stephen will work on what is a parameter change? What is a parameter? Who decides this? https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/67
* Document/capture what the community says on e.g. Telegram about parameter changes? rather than using Google forms etc to collect community opinion? Vanessa to do this in an informal way and ask people’s permission.
* Miro Board which has funding parameter percents
* [**https://miro.com/app/board/o9J\_ljPS0hg=/?moveToWidget=3458764519526918582\&cot=10**](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J\_ljPS0hg=/?moveToWidget=3458764519526918582\&cot=10) - Tevo
* VCA QA Petition process - way of requesting review if assessment unfairly reviewed&#x20;
* Results go to IOG - then what? An arbitrary decision? Community agency&#x20;
* Meeting with Harris re opening data - when community meets targets take over decisions 4 month Cadence - Funds in ADA.&#x20;
* These changes count as parameter changes?&#x20;
* Communication - discussion. Consultation?&#x20;
* Cost to submit proposals - different sources captured - Tevo&#x20;
* Who decides - feedback to community - Phil&#x20;
* Access to the research team ie the “Technical Council” and whoever else at IOG is involved in researching parameter changes? - PhilDocument parameter changes - to present back to IOG&#x20;
* Alignment on what a parameter is between IOG, Oversight & community
* Define a parameter&#x20;
* Catalogue existing parameters / new parameters Document where new parameters came from and where/how they were announced?



* 30:30 Tevo – We have divided the parameters into two types, about the process and specific terms like number, date or some limit.&#x20;
* 31:00 Tevo – To modify a parameter you must have a brief description and how it can be changed. 32:33 Stephen – A transcript of Kevin Hammond's meeting has been made, and will be turned into an FAQ about the Treasury. Two parameters emerged in this meeting. The first is the cadence format and the second is the idea.&#x20;
* 34:09 Phil – Now there is a way to ask for a review. Whether the reviews were unfairly removed or the VCAs are not working well.&#x20;
* 34:32 Allison – There are two more associated with VCAs. 1) is who is eligible to be a VCA. That was a parameter to change this background. 2) the introduction of a reputation model for VCAs.&#x20;
* 34:51 Phil – A permissionless system was created for this petition process, we operate it, but we've been hamstrung. We don't have any community agency, we get things started but we don't have control over the effects and the existing processes. We have a team doing research, but so is the community.&#x20;
* 36:39 Stephen – It's not clear how the parameter changes are made. The order that was perceived is: community design a petition process > getting results > which are taken to IOG > next step is unknown.&#x20;
* 37:10 Phil – We as a community need IOG to take some steps forward. It gets to a point where the community has already developed these posts well but IOG needs to provide feedback.&#x20;
* 38:27 Stephen – There is no clarity about what to do, how to assume that people are in the process.&#x20;
* 38:54 Phil – Catalyst is no longer in the early stages, a lot of people come from different backgrounds to discuss various subjects. Therefore, the next step is now to work out how the community can start helping IRG remove what it can from being the stewards and that's it.&#x20;
* 41:22 Phil – It is important that the parameters are discussed and defined so that the IOG starts to make changes in a way that is more aligned with th community.
* 41:41 Stephen – We should be working on the equivalent of a parameter change rubric in the same way that we have a rubric for a prioritized problem. There is no consistency.
* 42:11 Vanessa – This kind of parameter change is approached in a very piecemeal way. For example, in the telegram group a parameter change was posted as an answer to a question and not as an official announcement.&#x20;
* 43:08 Vanessa – There is a question about what a parameter change would be, for that we analyze how the change alters the way things work. There are no changes being made to like big parameters that everyone recognizes as a parameter. But there are the arbitrary, little things that really have a massive effect.&#x20;
* 44:15 Stephen – It would be important to talk about the parameters in the city hall.&#x20;
* 44:54 Phil – The community needs to be better informed. It is necessary to define the best communication channel. There is no debate option at the moment for the community, because it's an IOG parameter being put into practice, we can only discuss the edges of that parameter, not the core of it at this point.&#x20;
* 46:31 Stephen – If we don't know something we need to ask why.&#x20;
* 49:43 Stephen – Some questions about how the parameter change should have been discussed: how was it decided, when, with whom and so on. All these issues should be within the reach of the community.&#x20;
* 50:16 Allison – At the origin of this group, the ideal was to ensure that the parameters were debated, discussed, researched and communicated as widely as possible.&#x20;
* 51:20 Phil – We need a regular meeting with those people who are researching for feedback, what they're researching, and then getting that out to the community.
* 53:20 Allison – Since Harris is not part of the group it would be important to know if Phill is seeing him.&#x20;
* 54:09 Stephen – Danny was invited to the meeting, but there was a time conflict with another appointment of his.&#x20;
* 56:37 Phil – The parameter needs some time to be created, discussed, changed and moved. Our purpose as a group is to start looking at this and informing the community as transparently as possible.&#x20;
* 57:23 Tevo – An example of this would be taking this four-month cadence, for example, and then turning it into a parameter. It would be interesting to document this process.&#x20;
* 58:52 Stephen – The big question is, like, what is an alignment of parameters through the IOG oversight committee? What is the parameter? And do we have a perception of what a parameter is?&#x20;
* 59:24 Phil – We need to set a parameter both internally and externally, catalog the ones that already exist and how we see them.&#x20;
* 01:00:31 Vanessa – We can list about the parameters where they came from, where they were first mentioned, or released and so on.&#x20;
* 01:01:12 Allison – It would be important to bring someone to IOG for this conversation.&#x20;
* 01:01:46 Stephen – A meeting is needed before the next CGO meeting.&#x20;
* 01:02:16 Phil – At this meeting we would discuss what we define as parameters and a categorized list of those we identify, and we would like to present that at the next Town Hall.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action -** Hold a CGO meeting to discuss next week.
{% endhint %}

## &#x20;**6 FUND 7 CGO Proposal Reporting**

**5 minutes**&#x20;

Due 24th May 2022 - Stephen to complete&#x20;

Issue

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/63" %}

* 01:03:01 Stephen – We need a meeting next week. We would all have the opportunity to set the agenda for this and decide which actions would come out of this field.&#x20;
* 01:02:28 Matthias – Ideally, we would return to maximum human collaboration, but Ada's instability as a currency is very exclusionary. It would be important to bring real-world people into the catalyst, especially as we focus so much on technology. We need an audit at thenext town hall meeting, an update of the circle.&#x20;
* 01:05:40 Stephen – The example we have at the moment is the petition process, the form of cadence of funds, in a way that we want to call all these things and anything else we can think of to document them; not to go into too much detail. But just to identify where tha decision-making process was.&#x20;
* 01:07:01 Stephen – Will try to contact Danny (to join the meeting) and also Harris.
* 01:08:47 Allisson – Harris is the most relevant to this conversation.&#x20;
* 01:14:08 Tevo – We did three sections are regarding proposal advisor road. So that would be the Community Advisor. Andthe completed it so that there is no more questions to add to this template. I took a slight break. But the only way to finalize it is to make now one overview video, which is less than 10 minutes to encapsulate all of that information.&#x20;
* 01:16:52 Stephen – We are producing a lot of activity and will deliver as much as possible in the final report. If we are funded again, continue to work on it.

## 7 Any **Other Business**

Summary of CGO meeting for Catalyst Weekly Newsletter&#x20;

**5 minutes**&#x20;

Agree a short paragraph summarizing today's meeting&#x20;

All Issue

{% embed url="https://github.com/Catalyst-Auditing/Community-Governance-Oversight-Coordination/issues/66" %}

Cardano Constitution Working Group - gimbalabs - Matthias liaison&#x20;

[Feedback on this form](https://forms.gle/sgiuajUPRbLAZTST6)

Well received feedback. Form translated. Related to tokenimics work

Innovation Fund Architecture - Research workshops and session - Tevo

[Miro board](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVOQEPia4=/)

High level visual representation to see roles, actives and relations 3 sessions regarding proposal assessment role completed

Overview video planned

Open data meeting with Harris Phil - Lidonation, Ro etc&#x20;

LATAM Community are working on creating a manifesto&#x20;

After Townhall breakout rooms are not yet decided

* 01:10:04 Stephen – Proposal reporting is not until 24th; so to be discussed next meeting. On AOB, there's a Discord thread for creating summary of today's meeting for the weekly newsletter. This summary can be edited collaboratively.&#x20;
* 01:10:43 Stephen – The draw is already there too.&#x20;
* 01:11:01 Stephen – We are discussing parameter changes, twittering all our meetings. We've done a lot of production in the last couple of weeks and I can sum it all up. Any AOP is also geared towards this type of last update as to what else is going on as well. So the Constitutional Working Group retires, for example.
* 01:12:00 Vanessa – Other Catalyst communities are also having governance initiatives. For example, the LatAm community is creating a Catalyst manifesto, doing ongoing and interesting work on it - they will be sharing that more widely when it's ready.

**Next Meeting: 15:00 UTC, 19th May 2022**
