---
description: >-
  Community Governance Oversight Meeting #1 - Thursday, 10th March 2022 at 1600
  UTC
---

# F7 Meeting 1 - 10th March 2022

### F7 Community Governance Oversight Meeting #1

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/kQWPb25P5II" %}

## Attendees

| Name                |   |   |
| ------------------- | - | - |
| Allison Fromm       |   |   |
| Jo Allum            |   |   |
| Kenric Nelson       |   |   |
| Matthias Sieber     |   |   |
| Phil Khoo           |   |   |
| Stephen Whitenstall |   |   |
| Tevo Saks           |   |   |
| Vanessa Cardui      |   |   |
| Andre Diamond       |   |   |
| Miroslav Rajh       |   |   |

## Agenda

## Updates & Announcements

#### From Oversight members

https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/project/meetings-and-town-halls#9th-march-town-hall

## Treasury

### Proposal funds

Handover wallet addresses

Update Discord

Document process - Andre / Miro

## Admin

Alternate a secretary role to take notes at each meeting

## Survey Design

Assignment & commitment to the Survey deliverable. How to design a survey that fits the parameter change process.

For info, here is the fund 7 “Community Governance Oversight” proposal that funds this [https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383517](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383517)

Interested in reports - Allison

Scope of proposal - Kenric

We know how process works (we could use this knowledge to ask community which parameter changes they would like to change) - Tevo

Commitments - Tevo, Vanessa, Jo

What distinction between internal and external surveys - Phil

Why no engagement - Jo

How do we get IOG involvement related to parameter changes?

\
Nudging community - do not need to get involved - Phil

Not convinced we need IOG - Vanessa

## Scope of Governance Oversight

What should be the scope of Community Governance Oversight ?

Could we survey the community on their opinion on the way dreps were introduced to the community? – Jo

### Fund 7

### Fund 8

Oversight of dReps

Oversight of Catalyst Parameter Changes

Oversight of Circle Problem Sensing

Oversight of Challenge Setting

\\

Chase Harris on scope - Allison

Chase Marek on scope - Tevo

## Fund 8 Proposal

A Fund 8 Proposal has been submitted in the F8: Improve and Grow Auditability Challenge :

[https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398225](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398225)

Add resourcing for a dedicated secretary to the prop

## Meeting Times

What flexibility do we have in meeting times ?

Current Meeting time of 1600 UTC is OK

## Governance Oversight Outreach

What efforts can we make to reach different language communities ?

Incorporate funding for translation in F8 proposal

For F7 budget focus on outreach and preparation for different language communities

## Any Other Business

\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
