---
description: 'Community Governance Oversight Meeting #3 - 1500 UTC, Thursday, 7th April 2022'
---

# F7 Meeting 3 - 7th April 2022

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/qN06nH6jmlE" %}

## Agenda

[Link to Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ty0gKl4T6cefiNymm0K5lb5TuCBct-lG6dXCh\_MDrSA/edit?usp=sharing)

## Attendees:

| Name                | Role     |
| ------------------- | -------- |
| Allison Fromm       | Member   |
| Kenric Nelson       | Member   |
| Matthias Sieber     | Member   |
| Phil Khoo           | Member   |
| Stephen Whitenstall | Member   |
| Tevo Saks           | Member   |
| Vanessa Cardui      | Member   |
| Andre Diamond       | Treasury |
| Miroslav Rajh       | Treasury |

### Minutes

| Name           | Role      |
| -------------- | --------- |
| Livia Corcino  | Secretary |
|                |           |

### Apologies

| Name      | Role   |
| --------- | ------ |
| Jo Allum  | Member |

## &#x20;Information

### Community Governance Oversight (CGO)

F7 Ideascale Proposal - [https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383517](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383517)

F8 Ideascale Proposal - [https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398225](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398225)

GitBook - [https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/](https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/)

## Agenda

## 1 Audit Circle Treasury

**Andre & Mirolav** - updates on Treasury setup, member payments, costs & expenses.

* 01:06 Andre - there are several new ADA Due labels on the project board; this is yet to be resolved/discussed.
* 02:40 Stephen/Andre - this month’s funding has been paid, so next 3 meetings will be paid now.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action -** Treasury to pay members for the next 3 meetings
{% endhint %}

## 2 Town Hall Slides

**Allison** - Updates on Town Hall Slides

5 minutes

{% embed url="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WtE1hfvc5XuKF8ZG9ai7YyGwmGQALsNDwLY3FMhJeVU/edit?usp=sharing" %}

{% hint style="success" %}
**Decision :** The TH Slide work (Allison) should be charged for from CGO Budget - All
{% endhint %}

* 03:03 **Allison** - the Town Hall slides were shared on April 6th. There were many discussions about decentralized governance, principles and immediate actions.
* 03:52 **Allison** - trying to make the whole thing clearer to the community (people involved don't understand everything).
* 04:15 **Stephen** - it is necessary to update people on what is being done, what the philosophies of it are and any major announcements on governance processes.
* 04:47 **Vanessa/Allison/Phil** - People often ask what the group is and how it came together (at first, through voluntary action, and then they were financed) so it is useful to clarify this.
* 8:15 **Stephen** - we should take some money from the budget to pay Allison for doing Town Hall slides each week (Agreed)

{% hint style="success" %}
**Decision principle** - Ask if there are no objections
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
**Decision :** Project management (Stephen) should be charged as well but there is insufficient budget - a budget line was included in the F8 proposal. Will put it down to experience for now.
{% endhint %}

## 3 Fund 8 - CGO Proposal

Hold over item for future updates

* 09:20 **Stephen** - Fund 8 proposal is currently in the evaluation review (VCA) stage, so no further updates yet.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
**Stephen** - The Fund CGO Proposal is in the vCA stage ([https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398225](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398225))
{% endhint %}

## 4 Recruit secretary to support CGO

Allison / Stephen / Vanessa

* The transcription of meetings by a new secretary, Livia Corcino, is also being tested.

{% hint style="info" %}
Livia Corcino to summarize this week from a meeting recording.
{% endhint %}

## 5 F7 CGO Scope & Deliverables

All members - Progress under each scope area :  25 minutes

### 5.1 Challenge Setting - 10 minutes

{% hint style="success" %}
**Scope :** Including community contributed challenges and the creation and expanding role of challenge teams - Stephen
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
**Deliverables :** TBA - Need to consider approach to CT survey
{% endhint %}

* 10:00 **Stephen** - Our deliverables on the subject of Challenge Settings need to be defined. For now I attended the Challenge Team roundtable and started documenting that.
* 10:55 - **Phil** - Ro’s ATH session last week: he has essentially built an Ideascale replacement. Part of the Challenge Setting issues is the limitations of  Ideascale; so there could be process changes soon.
* 11:27 **Stephen** - from an oversight perspective, what should we be reporting on/surveying?
* 11:42 **Phil** - One problem is that people put Challenge Setting proposals on IdeaScale in the same way as ordinary proposals. He affirms how fundamental the insights sharing phase is for challenge setting proposals.&#x20;
* 13:56 **Matthias** - His understanding of what George is doing is: consolidating the challenges, making them bigger and broader, so that the proposals don't have to compete with each other (lower degree of specificity, so there wouldn't be as many proposals trying to better solve a well-defined problem).

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action** - Phil to feedback to Ro of Adagov. Maybe come and speak to oversight.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action** - talk to George Lovegrove about oversight - consolidate challenges into smaller categories - Stephen / Allison
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**Updates** - Challenge Team Round table 4 - will be documented here https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/governance-processes/challenge-setting
{% endhint %}

### 5.2 Catalyst Circle problem sensing - 10 minutes

{% hint style="success" %}
**Scope :** Effectiveness of prioritized problem sensing
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
**Deliverables :** How effectively is the prioritized problem board working ? How can CGO survey, assist and report on this ?
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**Action** - Joint working party with Catalyst Circle V3 on the Problems process. - Allison, Stephen, Tevo
{% endhint %}

[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vdQjER\_\_0ZZWq4oGGiA8vVZtG2zOgoFGySgp1sE0uSI/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vdQjER\_\_0ZZWq4oGGiA8vVZtG2zOgoFGySgp1sE0uSI/edit?usp=sharing) (comment link)

### 5.3 d-Reps

{% hint style="success" %}
**Scope :** Oversight of delegated voting innovations
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
**Deliverables :** The Survey deliverable will be used for a literature search contrasting “liquid democracy “ and “illiquid plutocracy “. The purpose is to provide measurable definitions for these terms. This would support the research for F8 CGO and provide some context for the interviews conducted within the community. - Kenric
{% endhint %}

Facilitate conversation with IOG teams - Kenric&#x20;

* discussion with Jack Briggs, IOG Voltaire Product Marketer, and a planned discussion with the Wolfram Catalyst Governance Analysis team.  - Kenric&#x20;

**Updates** - IOG have published a response to the community on d-Reps here - [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kD\_iVBZaq5As6O60\_TUqj-0pbm0QIdlSIG\_UF7B\_4kk/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kD\_iVBZaq5As6O60\_TUqj-0pbm0QIdlSIG\_UF7B\_4kk/edit?usp=sharing)

#### What are Internal & External surveys ?

#### Internal surveys

Internal surveys will be directed at self assessment / lessons learnt by those who organize each governance process (the governance processes are Challenge Teams, Catalyst Circle & the Technical Council.)

#### External surveys

External surveys will be directed at the Catalyst community and their reception of each governance process ( e.g. The governance processes are Challenge Setting, Catalyst Circle Problem Sensing & governance parameters setting.)

{% hint style="info" %}
**Deliverables :** Keeping track and documenting the ongoing community engagement with the d-Rep issue - Stephen
{% endhint %}

### 5.4 Governance parameters

{% hint style="success" %}
**Scope :** Modifying the governance parameters in Catalyst via Catalyst Circle and a Technical Council.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
**Deliverables :** This scope area is on hold. Some documentation work may be done.  - Allison / Stephen
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**Actions from last meeting** : Chase Harris on scope - Allison, Chase Marek on scope - Tevo - Harris announced parameters on hold at CCv3 meeting
{% endhint %}

Why on hold ?  - Kenric

Only parameters related to fund apportion to roles - Tevo

May not prevent feedback from community - surveys from community - current allocation of treasury apportion - educating community on parameters - Kenric

Miro Board which has funding parameter percents

[https://miro.com/app/board/o9J\_ljPS0hg=/?moveToWidget=3458764519526918582\&cot=10](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J\_ljPS0hg=/?moveToWidget=3458764519526918582\&cot=10) - Tevo

I think in Survey we also want to involve questions for community for them to suggest more impactful parameters they think there should be - tevo

Also ask how current allocation “feels” - tevo

We should not be hold - because IOG put on hold - kenric

Specific parameters to look at ? What work to do ? - Tevo, Stephen

Use case to look at - all of the rules eg VCA - Tevo

What is a parameter change and who decides what is ?

Survey what should be a parameter -&#x20;

Agree VCA is a parameter change - Vanessa

Documenting parameter change discussions - Vanessa

Huge amount of discussion on democratic ideas in Telegram - Allison

Community was involved - iterative dropbox - IOG design takes input and decides - Kenric

Taken by surprise by VCA decision / parameter - Allison

Survey question - How discussions went and is communication clear ?  - Phil

Catalyst constitution - Gimbalabs working group - Matthias

Only solutions that align with IOG  ? - Matthias&#x20;

Run survey in consultation in interested group or CC rep - Phil

Code of Conduct CC - Vanessa

Conflict of interest in Code of Conduct - Matthias

## 6 Fund 7 Proposal Reporting

Hold over item for future updates

## 7 Governance Oversight Outreach

What efforts can we make to reach different language communities ?  5 minutes\


{% hint style="danger" %}
Action from previous meeting: Incorporate funding for translation in F8 proposal
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="danger" %}
**Not completed** : Forgot to add this to the F8 proposal - we could possibly fund from another resource - Stephen
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Action from previous meeting: For F7 budget focus on outreach and preparation for different language communities - unassigned
{% endhint %}

## 8 Any Other Business

### GitHub Project Board

5 minutes

This project is being managed using the beta feature of GitHub Project Boards. See here - [https://github.com/orgs/Catalyst-Auditing/projects/3](https://github.com/orgs/Catalyst-Auditing/projects/3)

### Summary of CGO meeting for Catalyst Weekly Newsletter

5 minutes

{% hint style="info" %}
Agree a short paragraph summarizing today's meeting - All
{% endhint %}

**The Community Governance Oversight (CGO)**\
\
The Community Governance Oversight (CGO) group holds biweekly meetings to examine changes and developments in Catalyst governance processes.

On Thursday 7th April, the CGO group had its 3rd meeting. This focused on how to research and survey existing or planned governance processes from Catalyst Circle problem sensing to dReps to parameter changes. There was also some interesting discussion about what constitutes a governance process – for example, is a change to who can become a VCA an example of one, or not?\
\
Kenric Nelson of Photrek introduced Zotero ([www.zotero.org](https://iohk.us20.list-manage.com/track/click?u=26d3b656ecc43aa6f3063eaed\&id=222ea3738b\&e=4fd4da823e)) and Google Scholar as tools for development of a literature review on Liquid Democracy & Decentralized Governance. Meetings with Jack Briggs (IOG Product Marketing) and the Wolfram Mathematica team were held on governance and governance measurement, respectively. &#x20;

### Over run time&#x20;

5 minutes

Feedback &#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
**Next Meeting :** 1500 UTC, 21st April 2022
{% endhint %}
